index.md, before:


<style type="text/css">
.image-right {
  display: block;
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: auto;
  float: right;
}

.image-left {
  display: block;
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: 10px;
  float: left;
}
</style>

<!-- &nbsp; -->

![](http://medhatare.com/images/medha_headshot.jpg){: .image-left target="_blank"} I'm a computer scientist and lead a team of researchers.  Our interests largely target heterogeneous computing, and span traditional high performance computing and high performance embedded computing.

<!-- &nbsp; -->

&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 



## [](#header-2) Publications
### [](#header-3) Technology and Learning
* Tare, M., Golonka, E. & Clark, M. (2017). Virtual reality for language learning. _Signal Magazine_, 71(10), 39-41. ([online](https://www.afcea.org/content/?q=Article-go-moscow-learn-russian-sort){:target="_blank"})
* Golonka, E., Tare, M., & Bonilla, C. (2017). Peer interaction in text chat: Qualitative analysis of chat transcripts. _Language Learning and Technology_, 21(2), 157–178. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/golonkatarebonilla.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M., Golonka, E., Vatz, K., Bonilla, C., Crooks, C. & Strong, R. (2014). Effects of
interactive chat versus independent writing on L2 learning. _Language Learning & Technology_, 18(3), 208-227. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_llt_2014.pdf){:target="_blank"})



### [](#header-3) Individual Differences in Language Learning
* Tare, M., Golonka, E., Lancaster, A.K., Bonilla, C., Doughty, C.J., Belnap, K., & Jackson, S.R. (under
review). _The role of cognitive aptitude in a study abroad language learning environment_.
* Vatz, K., Tare, M., Jackson, S., & Doughty, C. (2013).  Aptitude-treatment interaction studies
in second language acquisition:  Findings and methodology.  In G. Granena & M. Long (Eds.). _Sensitive periods, language aptitude, and ultimate L2 attainment_ (pp.273-292). Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
* Linck, J.A., Hughes, M., Campbell, S., Silbert, N., Tare, M., Jackson, S., Smith, B., Bunting, M., &
Doughty, C., (2013).  Hi-LAB: A new measure of aptitude for high-level language proficiency.  _Language Learning_, 63, 530-566. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/Linck_hilab_2013.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M. (2006). Assessing the foreign language needs of the Department of Homeland Security. _Journal
            of Homeland Security and Emergency Management_, 3, Article 5. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_jhsem_2006.pdf){:target="_blank"})



### [](#header-3) Children's Informal Learning
* Tare, M., French, J.A., Frazier, B.N., Diamond, J., & Evans, E.M. (2011). Explanatory parent-child
            conversation predominates at an evolution exhibit. _Science Education_, 95, 720-744. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_scied_2011.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M., Chiong, C., Ganea, P. & DeLoache, J. (2010). Less is more: The effect of manipulative features
on children’s learning from picture books. _Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology_, 31, 395-400. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_jadp_2010.pdf){:target="_blank"})

### [](#header-3) Children's Language Development


* Tare, M. & Gelman, S.A. (2011). Bilingual parents’ modeling of pragmatic language use in multiparty
            interactions. _Applied Psycholinguistics_, 32, 761-780. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_and_gelman_2011.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M. & Gelman, S.A. (2010). Can you say it another way? Cognitive factors in bilingual children’s
            pragmatic language skills. _Journal of Cognition and Development_, 11, 137-158. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_and_gelman_jcd_2010.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M. & Gelman, S.A. (2010). Determining that a label is kind-referring: Factors that influence
            children’s and adults’ novel word extensions. _Journal of Child Language_, 37, 1007-1026. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_and_gelman_jcl_2010.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Shatz, M., Tare, M., Nguyen, S., & Young, T. (2010). Acquiring non-object terms: The case for time
            words. _Journal of Cognition and Development_, 11, 16-36. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/shatz_tare_nguyen_young_2010.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M., Shatz, M., & Gilbertson, L. (2008). Maternal uses of non-object terms in child-directed speech:
            Color, number, and time. _First Language_, 28, 87-100. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_shatz_gilbertson_2008.pdf){:target="_blank"})

Commit message:

Updated the intro and research.

index.md, after:


<style type="text/css">
.image-right {
  display: block;
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: auto;
  float: right;
}

.image-left {
  display: block;
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: 10px;
  float: left;
}
</style>

<!-- &nbsp; -->

![](http://medhatare.com/images/medha_headshot.jpg){: .image-left target="_blank"} I'm a research scientist with more than 10 years of experience in the learning sciences, examining factors that affect how both children and adults acquire new skills and knowledge, including individual cognitive differences, their environment, and the media they are exposed to.  My role as an Associate Research Scientist at the University of Maryland’s Center for the Advanced Study of Language (CASL) has allowed me to lead multimillion-dollar interdisciplinary development efforts that have resulted in key enhancements to education through curriculum development and classroom technology introduction for learners at large educational institutions.  As part of leading large programs , I have also gained the soft skills needed to develop and maintain relationships, gather input from stakeholders and write proposals for business development, lead teams and reach consensus on project goals, and navigate university systems. I am also very experienced in presenting project proposals and briefing findings to both academic and non-academic audiences and am detail-oriented when managing multiple projects. My research and program management skills and knowledge include: learning principles from educational, developmental, and cognitive psychology; instructional design and evaluation; qualitative and quantitative assessment and analysis; and project administration, including managing personnel, timelines, and contractual budgets. 
 

<!-- &nbsp; -->

&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 



## [](#header-2) Research
My research interests span several major areas. Broadly, my work in the learning sciences has examining individual differences (e.g., cognitive, biographical) that influence learners’ success in a variety of training environments (e.g., classrooms, self-study, immersion).  I have also studied the role and effect of educational technology interventions on learning outcomes and worked with instructors on professional development and adoption of new training techniques.  I also have expertise in children's cognitive and language development, examining children’s acquisition of language, social, and conceptual knowledge through interactions with parents or in informal contexts such as museums.

### [](#header-3) Technology and Learning
* Tare, M., Golonka, E. & Clark, M. (2017). Virtual reality for language learning. _Signal Magazine_, 71(10), 39-41. ([online](https://www.afcea.org/content/?q=Article-go-moscow-learn-russian-sort){:target="_blank"})
* Golonka, E., Tare, M., & Bonilla, C. (2017). Peer interaction in text chat: Qualitative analysis of chat transcripts. _Language Learning and Technology_, 21(2), 157–178. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/golonkatarebonilla.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M., Golonka, E., Vatz, K., Bonilla, C., Crooks, C. & Strong, R. (2014). Effects of
interactive chat versus independent writing on L2 learning. _Language Learning & Technology_, 18(3), 208-227. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_llt_2014.pdf){:target="_blank"})



### [](#header-3) Individual Differences in Language Learning
* Tare, M., Golonka, E., Lancaster, A.K., Bonilla, C., Doughty, C.J., Belnap, K., & Jackson, S.R. (under
review). _The role of cognitive aptitude in a study abroad language learning environment_.
* Vatz, K., Tare, M., Jackson, S., & Doughty, C. (2013).  Aptitude-treatment interaction studies
in second language acquisition:  Findings and methodology.  In G. Granena & M. Long (Eds.). _Sensitive periods, language aptitude, and ultimate L2 attainment_ (pp.273-292). Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
* Linck, J.A., Hughes, M., Campbell, S., Silbert, N., Tare, M., Jackson, S., Smith, B., Bunting, M., &
Doughty, C., (2013).  Hi-LAB: A new measure of aptitude for high-level language proficiency.  _Language Learning_, 63, 530-566. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/Linck_hilab_2013.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M. (2006). Assessing the foreign language needs of the Department of Homeland Security. _Journal
            of Homeland Security and Emergency Management_, 3, Article 5. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_jhsem_2006.pdf){:target="_blank"})



### [](#header-3) Children's Informal Learning
* Tare, M., French, J.A., Frazier, B.N., Diamond, J., & Evans, E.M. (2011). Explanatory parent-child
            conversation predominates at an evolution exhibit. _Science Education_, 95, 720-744. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_scied_2011.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M., Chiong, C., Ganea, P. & DeLoache, J. (2010). Less is more: The effect of manipulative features
on children’s learning from picture books. _Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology_, 31, 395-400. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_jadp_2010.pdf){:target="_blank"})

### [](#header-3) Children's Language Development


* Tare, M. & Gelman, S.A. (2011). Bilingual parents’ modeling of pragmatic language use in multiparty
            interactions. _Applied Psycholinguistics_, 32, 761-780. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_and_gelman_2011.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M. & Gelman, S.A. (2010). Can you say it another way? Cognitive factors in bilingual children’s
            pragmatic language skills. _Journal of Cognition and Development_, 11, 137-158. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_and_gelman_jcd_2010.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M. & Gelman, S.A. (2010). Determining that a label is kind-referring: Factors that influence
            children’s and adults’ novel word extensions. _Journal of Child Language_, 37, 1007-1026. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_and_gelman_jcl_2010.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Shatz, M., Tare, M., Nguyen, S., & Young, T. (2010). Acquiring non-object terms: The case for time
            words. _Journal of Cognition and Development_, 11, 16-36. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/shatz_tare_nguyen_young_2010.pdf){:target="_blank"})
* Tare, M., Shatz, M., & Gilbertson, L. (2008). Maternal uses of non-object terms in child-directed speech:
            Color, number, and time. _First Language_, 28, 87-100. ([pdf](http://medhatare.com/papers/tare_shatz_gilbertson_2008.pdf){:target="_blank"})
